Update global.json for 3.0 (#15382)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tools/global-json.md

---
title: global.json overview
description: Learn how to use the global.json file to set the .NET Core SDK version when running .NET Core CLI commands.
ms.date: 12/15/2019
ms.custom: "updateeachrelease, seodec18"
---
# global.json overview

**This article applies to: ✓** .NET Core 2.x SDK and later versions

> The *global.json* file allows you to define which .NET Core SDK version is used when you run .NET Core CLI commands. Selecting the .NET Core SDK is independent from specifying the runtime your project targets. The .NET Core SDK version indicates which versions of the .NET Core CLI tools are used. In general, you want to use the latest version of the tools, so no *global.json* file is needed.

Reviewer: Can we call out the last sentence a bit more - perhaps by putting it in a separate paragraph first. 
```suggestion
 In general, you want to use the latest version of the SDK tools, so no *global.json* file is needed. In some advanced scenarios, users wish to control the version of the SDK tools, and this article explains how to do this.
 
 The *global.json* file allows you to define which .NET Core SDK version is used when you run .NET Core CLI commands. Selecting the .NET Core SDK is independent from specifying the runtime your project targets. The .NET Core SDK version indicates which versions of the .NET Core CLI tools are used.
```

Author: I'll make some changes to your suggestion here since it mixes you and 3rd person.

Author: I'm also thinking we need to define what a global.json file is and what it does before we say what's our recommendation. This change also impacts SEO.

> The *global.json* file allows you to define which .NET Core SDK version is used when you run .NET Core CLI commands. Selecting the .NET Core SDK is independent from specifying the runtime your project targets. The .NET Core SDK version indicates which versions of the .NET Core CLI tools are used. In general, you want to use the latest version of the tools, so no *global.json* file is needed.

Author: Not really @tdykstra - https://styleguides.azurewebsites.net/StyleGuide/Read?id=2696&topicid=44109

### sdk

Type: `object`

Specifies information about the .NET Core SDK to select.

#### version

- Type: `string`

- Available since: .NET Core 1.0 SDK.

The version of the .NET Core SDK to use.

This field:

> - Doesn't have globbing support, that is, the full version number has to be specified.

Author: Would you like to remove the word globbing from other articles too?

- Doesn't have globbing support, that is, the full version number has to be specified.
- Doesn't support version ranges.

#### allowPrerelease

- Type: `boolean`

- Available since: .NET Core 3.0 SDK.

Indicates whether the SDK resolver should consider prerelease versions when selecting the SDK version to use.

If you don't set this value explicitly, the default value depends on whether you're running from Visual Studio:

- If you're **not** in Visual Studio, the default value is `true`.
- If you are in Visual Studio, it uses the prerelease status requested. That is, if you're using a Preview version of Visual Studio or you set the **Use previews of the .NET Core SDK** option (under **Tools** > **Options** > **Environment** > **Preview Features**), the default value is `true`; otherwise, `false`.

#### rollForward

- Type: `string`

- Available since: .NET Core 3.0 SDK.

> The roll-forward policy to use when selecting an SDK version, either as a fallback when a specific SDK version is missing or as a directive to use a later version. A [version](#version) must be specified with a `rollForward` value, unless you're setting it to `latestMajor`. 

Reviewer: We need to replace most use of "latest" with "highest". In the 2.x SDKs, this is not the same. Patches are latest.

```suggestion
The roll-forward policy to use when selecting an SDK version, either as a fallback when a specific SDK version is missing or as a directive to use a higher version. A [version](#version) must be specified with a `rollForward` value, unless you're setting it to `latestMajor`. 
```

Author: I agree with @tdykstra. a later version or a higher version are synonyms with a later version being more common in docs. 

Note that I'm not saying latest, I'm saying a later version, but I can change to higher if you think it's confusing.

To understand the available policies and their behavior, consider the following definitions for an SDK version in the format `x.y.znn`:

- `x` is the major version.
- `y` is the minor version.
- `z` is the feature band.
- `nn` is the patch version.

> The following table shows the possible values for the `rollForward` key:

Reviewer: In the table, I think available is better than higher, but I don't feel strongly about this. I think the change from lastest to highest for the "latest.." series is important.

Author: Just to make sure I understand since your suggestions were changing available to higher, did you mean to say that higher is better than available instead?

Author: Yep. Thanks for confirming.

| Value         | Behavior |
| ------------- | ---------- |
| `patch`       | Uses the specified version. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the latest patch level. <br> If not found, fails. <br><br> This value is the legacy behavior from the earlier versions of the SDK. |

> | `feature`     | Uses the latest patch level for the specified major, minor, and feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next available feature band within the same major/minor and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, fails. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `feature`     | Uses the latest patch level for the specified major, minor, and feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next higher feature band within the same major/minor and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, fails. |
```

> | `minor`       | Uses the latest patch level for the specified major, minor, and feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next available feature band within the same major/minor version and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next available minor and feature band within the same major and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, fails. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `minor`       | Uses the latest patch level for the specified major, minor, and feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next higher feature band within the same major/minor version and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next higher minor and feature band within the same major and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, fails. |
```

> | `major`       | Uses the latest patch level for the specified major, minor, and feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next available feature band within the same major/minor version and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next available minor and feature band within the same major and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next available major, minor, and feature band and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, fails. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `major`       | Uses the latest patch level for the specified major, minor, and feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next higher feature band within the same major/minor version and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next higher minor and feature band within the same major and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, rolls forward to the next higher major, minor, and feature band and uses the latest patch level for that feature band. <br> If not found, fails. |
```

| `latestPatch` | Uses the latest installed patch level that matches the requested major, minor, and feature band with a patch level and that is greater or equal than the specified value. <br> If not found, fails. |

> | `latestFeature` | Uses the latest installed feature band and patch level that matches the requested major and minor with a feature band that is greater or equal than the specified value. <br> If not found, fails. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `latestFeature` | Uses the highest installed feature band and patch level that matches the requested major and minor with a feature band that is greater or equal than the specified value. <br> If not found, fails. |
```

> | `latestMinor` | Uses the latest installed minor, feature band, and patch level that matches the requested major with a minor that is greater or equal than the specified value. <br> If not found, fails. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `latestMinor` | Uses the highest installed minor, feature band, and patch level that matches the requested major with a minor that is greater or equal than the specified value. <br> If not found, fails. |
```

> | `latestMajor` | Uses the latest .NET Core SDK available with a major that is greater or equal than the specified value. <br> If not found, fail. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `latestMajor` | Uses the highest installed .NET Core SDK with a major that is greater or equal than the specified value. <br> If not found, fail. |
```

> > The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is part of the .NET Core runtime.

Author: Great idea @tdykstra! But I don't think we have anything written anywhere about apphost. @KathleenDollard are you aware of any? If not, should we add a backlog item to explain what apphost is?

> > The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is part of the .NET Core runtime.

Reviewer: Great catch. 

When this was written, apphost was just part of the common `dotnet.exe` code. Now, that part of the code is inserted into framework dependent shared applications, so use of the word `apphost` here is going to be confusing. And saying this is part of the runtime is confusing here because the key point is that this part is NOT side by side. Is this clear? (including the next line as well). 

```suggestion
> The matching rules are governed by `dotnet.exe` entry point, which is common across all installed .NET Core installed runtimes. The matching rules for the latest installed version of the .NET Core Runtime are used when you have multiple runtimes installed side-by-side.
```

> > The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is part of the .NET Core runtime.

Author: I think this is more clear. Thanks!

> > The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is part of the .NET Core runtime.

Reviewer: @mairaw I may be confused here. Did you intend to take this change? Your comment sounds like yes, but I do not see this updated in the doc.

> > The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is part of the .NET Core runtime.

Author: Oh weird. Yes, I intended to take this. And I should probably remove the next line correct?

> > The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is part of the .NET Core runtime.

Reviewer 2: I think this wording is fine. Super *technically*, it is governed by the highest version of hostfxr in <directory of dotnet>\host\fxr\<version>, which the dotnet entry point will load and call to  

Is it better to use a more cross-plat name than dotnet.exe (exe is windows specific), maybe just dotnet entry point?

Neither of these are very important. :)

> The latest version of the host is used when you have multiple runtimes installed side-by-side.

## [.NET Core 3.x](#tab/netcore3x)

Starting with .NET Core 3.0, the following rules apply when determining which version of the SDK to use:

> - If no *global.json* file is found, or *global.json* doesn't specify an SDK version nor an `allowPrerelease` value, the latest installed SDK version is used (equivalent to setting `rollForward` to `latestMajor`). Whether the latest SDK version can be release or prerelease depends on how `dotnet` is being invoked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If no *global.json* file is found, or *global.json* doesn't specify an SDK version nor an `allowPrerelease` value, the highest installed SDK version is used (equivalent to setting `rollForward` to `latestMajor`). Whether the prerelease SDK versions are considered depends on how `dotnet` is being invoked.
```

>   - If you're **not** in Visual Studio, prerelease versions are considered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you're **not** in Visual Studio, prerelease versions are considered, unless `allowPrerelease` is set to false in *global.json*.
```

Author: I won't take this once since the condition specifies that allowPrerelease is not set in the previous sentence:

"If no *global.json* file is found, or *global.json* doesn't specify an SDK version nor an `allowPrerelease` value"

  - If you are in Visual Studio, it uses the prerelease status requested. That is, if you're using a Preview version of Visual Studio or you set the **Use previews of the .NET Core SDK** option (under **Tools** > **Options** > **Environment** > **Preview Features**), prerelease versions are considered; otherwise, only release versions are considered.

> - If a *global.json* file is found that doesn't specify an SDK version but it specifies an `allowPrerelease` value, the latest installed SDK version is used (equivalent to setting `rollForward` to `latestMajor`). Whether the latest SDK version can be release or prerelease depends on the value of `allowPrerelease`. `true` indicates prerelease versions are considered; `false` indicates that only release versions are considered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a *global.json* file is found that doesn't specify an SDK version but it specifies an `allowPrerelease` value, the highest installed SDK version is used (equivalent to setting `rollForward` to `latestMajor`). Whether the latest SDK version can be release or prerelease depends on the value of `allowPrerelease`. `true` indicates prerelease versions are considered; `false` indicates that only release versions are considered.
```

- If a *global.json* file is found and it specifies an SDK version:

>   - If no `rollFoward` value is set, it uses `major` as the default `rollForward` policy. Otherwise, check each value and their behavior in the [rollForward](#rollforward) section.

Reviewer: I need to check this. It's not what I thought the default was.

Author: Based on our conversation offline, the right value here would be latestPatch, right?

Author: ```suggestion
  - If no `rollFoward` value is set, it uses `latestPatch` as the default `rollForward` policy. Otherwise, check each value and their behavior in the [rollForward](#rollforward) section.
```

  - Whether prerelease versions are considered and what's the default behavior when `allowPrerelease` isn't set is described in the [allowPrerelease](#allowprerelease) section.

## [.NET Core 2.x](#tab/netcore2x)

> 

Reviewer: @mairaw Add your magic formatting here

> The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is installed as part of the .NET Core runtime.
> These rules are used unless a 3.0 or higher version of the SDK or Runtime have ever been installed, since the latest version of the host is used when you have multiple runtimes installed side-by-side.

Author: We already have a similar warning before the tabs:
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/global-json?branch=pr-en-us-15382&tabs=netcore3x#matching-rules

Not sure what you'd like to do here

Reviewer: NM

> The matching rules are governed by the apphost, which is part of the .NET Core runtime.

> > The latest version of the host is used when you have multiple runtimes installed side-by-side.

Author: ```suggestion
```

.NET Core SDK versions `2.1.100` through `2.1.201` were released during the transition between version number schemes and don't correctly handle the `xyz` notation. We highly recommend if you specify these versions in the *global.json* file, that you ensure the specified versions are on the target machines.

---

## Troubleshooting build warnings

> [!WARNING]
> You are working with a preview version of the .NET Core SDK. You can define the SDK version via a global.json file in the current project. More at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=869452>

> This warning indicates that your project was compiled using a prerelease version of the .NET Core SDK. .NET Core SDK versions have a history and commitment of being high quality. However, if you don't want to use a prerelease version, check the different strategies you can use with .NET Core 3.0 SDK or a later version in the [allowPrerelease](#allowprerelease) section. For SDK versions earlier than .NET Core 3.0 SDK, you need to create a *global.json* file and specify the exact version you want to use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This warning indicates that your project was compiled using a prerelease version of the .NET Core SDK. .NET Core SDK versions have a history and commitment of being high quality. However, if you don't want to use a prerelease version, check the different strategies you can use with .NET Core 3.0 SDK or a later version in the [allowPrerelease](#allowprerelease) section. For machines that have never had a .NET Core 3.0 or higher Runtime or SDK installed, you need to create a *global.json* file and specify the exact version you want to use. 
```

Reviewer 3: you can use with .NET Core 3.0 SDK =--> you can use with the .NET Core 3.0 SDK
